What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

There is a .git folder with metadata. You need to add files using git add <filename> for them to be tracked. You need to do this because
you may not want to track all files

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area is a subset of the set of files in the working directory that you want to commit to the repository. 
Choosing which files to commit may be better for following the idea of one commit per logical change, if the files are logically separate
Also, you may not care to track changes to all files

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
Use git diff --staged to compare the file(s) in staging area to the respository and verify that there is indeed one logical change made
then use git commit
Also if you have made more than one logical change across multiple files since your last commit, you can add them to the staging area 
(git add) and commit them one at a time

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
Say you want to add an experimental feature while still working on your master branch code. Or you want to make a version in spanish
or something. You achieve better logical separation with branches. Also, since you don't have to jump back and forth between commits 
within a single branch there is less cognitive overhead with keeping track of everything.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
You can look at the progress of each branch independently, as well as what point in time a branch began, and its parent and the parent 
of each commit

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
Anything removed from the common ancestor node by either branch is left out of the merge. Anything added to either branch is kept. 
The resulting commit from the merge has as parents the last commit from each branch before the commit.
